---
layout: post
title:  My Top 10 Albums
date: 2020-07-26
description: The top 10 albums that have shaped my life so far
categories: [miscellaneous]
---
{% include image.html url="/images/blog/albums/cds.JPG" caption="My CD collection (a post about it in the future maybe?)" width=350 align="right" %}

Oh wow, my first full blog post.

You see, I'm not the biggest of music nerds out there. In fact, I consider myself the opposite. I tend to listen to a very narrow scope of artists, and I will rarely listen to anything different. However, when I do find an artist I enjoy, I tend to dig through their entire discography, listening to their albums and all their other songs.

A good album doesn't just have good songs, but they have songs that fits well together. A good album is not just a collection of songs, but an experience, where the songs are where they are for a reason. Nowadays, people (myself included) like to put all songs in a playlist and hit shuffle. But sometimes, there is a beauty in just listening to an album all the way through in the order the artist intend for it to be listen in.

Below are my top 10 albums throughout the years in chronological order of their release date. I don't necessarily think these albums are the best albums of all time (otherwise I would probably have thrown The White Album or The Wall into the list), but they are albums that have stuck with me through the years, and mean something to me beyond the notes that makes up the songs.

## Oasis - (What's The Story) Morning Glory (1995)

Yes, the oldest album on this list is only 25 years old. Good indication of how recent some of the albums on here will be.

Oasis was such a cool band. They were able to rock an entire stadium while standing completely still. If you look at them playing live, Liam never runs around or anything. He always just stands there looking cool, singing with his signature style. They were the real rockstars of the day.

(What's The Story) Morning Glory was the album right during their peak. Some of Oasis' most iconic songs like Wonderwall or Don't Look Back In Anger was from this album, while songs like Roll With It and Some Might Say are also very good songs. It's a great Britpop album and a great work of Oasis.

It's a shame really that the two Gallagher brothers don't get along anymore nowadays. But hey, on the bright side, at least it allowed for Noel to go on and write If I Had A Gun, which is probably the best thing either brothers have composed post-Oasis.

## Radiohead - Kid A (2000)

When I listen to music, I tend to focus less on the lyrics and more on how the song feels. _Kid A_ is therefore one of the albums that I really enjoy. I mean sure, _OK Computer_ is one of the best rock albums on all time, or how _In Rainbows_ has a very unique sound to it, or how _A Moon Shaped Pool_ is the saddest work they have put out. Even albums like _The Bends_ is good descpite how it doesn't fit what Radiohead ends up doing down the line. But nothing they have done beats _Kid A_.

I mean, most of the lyrics in _Kid A_ makes no sense. In the opening track, Everything In Its Right Place, one of the first thing Thom Yorke sings is "Yesterday I woke up sucking a lemon". What does it mean to suck on a lemon? I don't know. But the tune to the song is super catchy. It's a eerie piano groove set to a weird time signature, and that's enough to catch the listener's attention.

The tunes in this album are very fun to listen to. The National Anthem (which is also my favourite Radiohead song) is just a very simple bassline and drum groove mixed with elements of free-form jazz. It's a sound of chaos blended in with a ordered base. Idioteque is a tune driven by electronic sounds, followed by Morning Bell which again has another eerie sound to. I could probably go on describing all the tracks of the album, but I'd prefer you give the album a listen to yourself.

## Keane - Under The Iron Sea (2006)

Keane is a very unique band since they do not have a main guitarist in the band, but instead only having Tim Rice-Oxley who plays the piano/synthesiser in all(?) of their songs.

Their debut album, _Hopes and Fears_, has some of their best hits like Everybody's Changing or Somewhere Only We Know. Even their later work like _Strangeland_ still has some very good tracks, like The Starting Line or Sovereign Light Cafe. I started listening to Keane after they have gone on hiatus after _Strangeland_, and you won't believe how glad I was when they got back together to release _Cause and Effect_ about six years later.

_Under The Iron Sea_, however, is a whole different story. The reason I like this album so much is because of how well the song fits together as an album. The opening track, Atlantic, is a very dark sounding opener for the album, and easily in my favourite Keane song (_Atlantic Gang!_). A lot of the songs on this album has a heavy sound to, as if one is under the iron sea (he he). We can see the anger coming out of Nothing In My Way, while songs like Hamburg Song is filled with feelings of regret and is one of the more downbeat songs in the album. A lot of the songs have a very similar aesthetic (does the word apply for sounds too?) and it makes the album carry the themes very well.

## Linkin Park - Minutes To Midnight (2007)

Linkin Park has done so many things and remained quite successful through it all. Their first two albums were very heavy and more metal-sounding, while their later works became more electronic and even went towards pop (especially in _One More Light_ which, by the way, was actually a very good album of theirs).

Personally though, my favourite Linkin Park sound is definitely during _A Thousand Suns_ and _Minutes To Midnight_. Here, I picked the latter since I find it has a bit more rock to it (which doesn't necessarily make it better, just makes it an album I prefer more).

The opening song, Given Up, is a powerful song where you can hear the anger in the voice of Chester Bennington. There are a bit of everything, from the power ballads in Leave Out All The Rest or Shadow Of The Day, to heavier songs like What I've Done. You can hear Mike Shinoda's rapping in both Bleed It Out and Hands Held High (which are two very different songs), and even the closing track Little Things Give You Away is a beautiful closer. Damn Linkin Park, your music rocks.

## Muse - Black Holes and Revelations (2007)

Similar to Linkin Park, Muse also have gone through a lot of changes in their sounds throughout the years. From the more raw sounds in _Showbiz_ all the way to being influenced by more electronic sounds in _Simulation Theory_. For me though, _Black Holes and Revelations_ is my introduction to Muse, and has remained my favourite album of theirs.

The album has a space theme and somehow sounds a bit futuristic. There are songs driven by a nice heavy riff like Supermassive Black Hole, or Assassin which has very exciting drums, while songs like Starlight or Invincible is a bit softer but still has nice riffs and are very catchy. The album has more experimental electronic sounds but also have some iconic guitar and bass lines behind it. The album closes off with Knights Of Cydonia, an exciting closer which makes you feel like you're in the Wild West or something.

## Coldplay - Viva La Vida or Death And All His Friends (2008)

I could probably go on for hours about how good Coldplay is. From their earlier albums like _Parachutes_ or _A Rush Of Blood To The Head_ where they tried to be more alternative, to _Mylo Xyloto_ when they incorporate more pop into their sound, to them going back to hints of the old Coldplay in _Everyday Life_. It might not have been everyone's cup of tea, but they have always managed to remain relevant in the music scene even through all these years.

Out of Coldplay's entire discography though, _Viva La Vida or Death And All His Friends_ is probably my favourite. Heck, it's probably my favourite album of all time even. It was a great introduction for me to the band, and was also the first album I ever bought (I got it when I went to Japan).

The whole album deals with the themes of life and death. They have all sorts of sound in there. They have heavier songs like Cemeteries of London, angry songs like Violet Hill, and even warm, fuzzy-feeling songs like Lovers In Japan and Reign Of Love. The songs all fits together with these different emotions, like how life is composed of these different emotions. The closing track, Death And All His Friends, is a great closer and does a great job wrapping the whole album together. It's easily the best album Coldplay has ever written.

## OneRepublic - Waking Up (2010)

{% include image.html url="/images/blog/albums/waking_up.JPG" caption="A signed copy of <i>Waking Up</i>" width=300 align="right" %}

_Waking Up_ is one of the more rock albums released by OneRepublic. The work they have put up lately have been quite pop, and while that is not a bad thing, I still prefer the sounds from their first two albums a lot more.

The album opens with Made For You, which builds up the tone for the album very well. It follows this up with All The Right Moves, which is the best track OneRepublic has played live. Other iconic OneRepublic tracks are on this album like the more acoustic-sounding song Good Life, or Secrets with its iconic cello line, or Marchin On which is a very upbeat song and a good sports anthem. Their sweetest song, All This Time, also fits very well on the album. To close this album off, we have the gentle sounds from the song Lullaby.

_Waking Up_ is also a special album for me since it is the only album I own which was signed by the artist. In my case, I was fortunate enough to have the signature of Ryan Tedder on my copy of the album.

## Taylor Swift - Red (2012)

Probably the most different album in this list. But I mean, she is a really good artist. Her earlier albums has elements of country music in it, and there are some very good songs from her that were from the earlier years of her career.

However, _Red_ is my favourite of her work, because it was my introduction to Taylor Swift, and was also amongst one of the first music albums I bought. It is a good pop album with some very good tracks. The album opens very strongly with State Of Grace, with a nice drum beat and a good buildup for the rest of the songs. A lot of the hits like We Are Never Getting Back Together, Everything Has Changed or Red (title track) had very different sounds but still remains quite catchy. Songs like All Too Well or Begin Again were also very nice slower tracks with more meaningful lyrics.

_Red_ might sound like a generic pop album, but it's still a very good one regardless.

## Kodaline - In A Perfect World (2013)

_In A Perfect World_ is the best debut album that this Irish band could have released. Many of the songs on there are perfect, like High Hopes, Talk, Brand New Day, and so on. It has so many emotions attached to it, and always makes for a great listen. Even the bonus tracks (like Perfect World or Lose Your Mind) are absolute masterpieces that could have gone on the album itself.

I also enjoyed their later albums as well. _Coming Up For Air_ had my two favourite Kodaline tracks The One and Love Will Set You Free. _Politics of Living_ sees Kodaline experimenting more with their sound, and songs like Follow Your Fire or Shed A Tear really makes the album stand out. Even _One Dat At A Time_ has great moments and is a very warm-sounding album released during the heights of the Covid-19 pandemic. All their albums are amazing, but none more so than _In A Perfect World_.

One of the things that I also really like about Kodaline is their appreciation for the fans. During the past few months they have been doing weekly live streams where they played acoustic versions of their songs (highlight obviously being when they finally played Blood And Bones live), while also answering fans' questions. I also have tweeted a couple of memes to Steve Garrigan, and he even replied to one of them. That seriously made my day.

## Paramore - After Laughter (2017)

{% include image.html url="/images/blog/albums/para.PNG" caption="I mean it when I say I only listened to Paramore in 2019" width=250 align="right" %}

And finally, _After Laughter_.

I only started listening to Paramore very recently (like 2018 or something), but listening through their discography you can really hear the evolution in their sound. They started off with a more emo sound in their first two albums, then became more polished towards _Brand New Eyes_. Then they entered a more pop period with their self-titled album, and most recently, we have _After Laughter_.

_After Laughter_ is best described as an album composed of very happy music hiding the very sad lyrics. Take their opening track, Hard Times, as an example. It has a very happy riff with very upbeat drum fills, at the same time we hear Hayley singing "tell me that I'm alright, that I ain't gonna die". The track right after, Rose-Colored Boy, has a very similar story. The melody is very colourful and makes you want to dance around. The lyrics though, is a bit more heavy. There are also some other great tracks in the album like Fake Happy, Pool or Caught In The Middle.

Paramore is super catchy for some reason. I don't know what it is about their songs, but I just find myself listening to _After Laughter_ and their self-titled album on repeat _a lot_. In 2019, I'm sure my most listened to tracks were all songs off these two albums. And probably by a mile too if I can find those stats.

Paramore were just teenagers when they wrote their debut album - they can't keep making emo songs forever. _After Laughter_ signals a very interesting new sound from Paramore, and it will be interesting to see what else they have to offer in the future (beyond Hayley's solo work of course).

## Honourable Mentions

...that isn't a name of an album. I just want to list other albums I have listened to which I like but not enough for it to make in my Top 10. The list here is in alphabetical order of artist name.

- _Carabao - Made In Thailand_. The oldest album here and the only album on here which is not in English. Has been an album I listened to a lot while in my parent's car.

- _Ed Sheeran - +_. Ed Sheeran's first album saw him being himself, making nice songs on his guitar. There are beautiful moments on there like The A Team or Kiss Me, and then there's also You Need Me, I Don't Need You which is basically just a diss track from Ed.

- _Franz Ferdinand - Franz Ferdinand_. A good rock album from the Scottish band. I was introduced to them when my guitar instructor taught me to play the song Take Me Out.

- _Jason Mraz - We Sing. We Dance. We Steal Things_. A nice acoustic album from Jason Mraz. Personal highlights are Lucky and If It Kills Me.

- _The Killers - Hot Fuss_. The debut album of the band. This album contains the band's greatest hit Mr Brightside, although it also has some other bangers, including All These Things That I've Done and Somebody Told Me.

- _Maroon 5 - Songs About Jane_. You have to admit that early Maroon 5 is actually quite decent. Especially before they went full-on pop (Overexposed was their last decent work in my opinion). Their debut album though is very good.

- _Seafret - Tell Me It's Real_. A more acoustic-sounding album from the duo. It's a nice chill album to listen to. There was a period I listened to Atlantis daily because it was so catchy.

- _Travis - The Man Who_. The entire album has a sadder tone to it, and it's beautifully written. Especially the opener Writing To Reach You. I mean, what's a Wonderwall anyway?

Some albums I like also didn't make it to fit my arbitrary "one artist, one album" rule. To make up for that, here are some other albums I really enjoyed from artists I have already mentioned.

- _Coldplay - A Rush Of Blood To The Head_. It's one of Coldplay's earlier works, and sounds somewhat "raw" and has nice rock sounds to it. Highlights include In My Place, A Rush Of Blood To The Head (title track) and Amsterdam.

- _Coldplay - Mylo Xyloto_. Woo hoo, another Coldplay album. This time, it's a very "colourful" album that they have released. A good transition album from the more rock sounds of Coldplay to a more pop Coldplay. Personal favourites include Hurts Like Heaven, us Against The World and Up With The Birds.

- _Keane - Strangeland_. The album Keane released before they went on hiatus. It's a very soft album with easy sounding songs. Sovereign Light Cafe is the obvious highlight of the album, but The Starting Line is also very beautiful.

- _Linkin Park - One More Light_. The last album before Chester took his life. It was a very meaningful album to the band, and after more listens, Linkin Park fans all would appreciate it more and more. Even though the sound is very different from what Linkin Park is known for, it still remains a very good work of theirs. Highlights include Talking To Myself and One More Light (title track).

- _Paramore - Paramore_. Ah yes, the self-titled album of theirs. It's a nice transition to a more pop sound that Paramore enters, and the songs on there are all quite good, despite it being written while the Farro brothers are not around. I told you all about how much I listened to this album earlier, so I won't repeat it again. Highlights include Now, Part II, and Still Into You (which was stuck in my head for months the first time I heard it).

- _Radiohead - In Rainbows_. One of the more artistic albums released by Radiohead. A very fresh sound with an unorthodox way of releasing the work. Highlights include All I Need and Jigsaw Falling Into Place.
